README.md, before:

# Firewalla Integration for Home Assistant

This custom component integrates your Firewalla device(s) with Home Assistant, allowing you to monitor the status and statistics of your Firewalla.

## Features

- Monitor online status of your Firewalla
- Track the number of devices connected to your network
- Monitor rule count
- Track alarm count
- View device information like model, version, mode, etc.
- Control (pause/resume) Firewalla rules through Home Assistant
- Use services to control Firewalla rules programmatically

## Installation

### HACS (Recommended)

1. Ensure [HACS](https://hacs.xyz/) is installed in your Home Assistant instance
2. Add this repository as a custom repository in HACS:
   - Click on HACS in the sidebar
   - Click on "Integrations"
   - Click the three dots in the top right corner
   - Select "Custom repositories"
   - Add the URL: `https://github.com/joaopedrogoncalves/homeassistant-firewalla`
   - Select "Integration" as the category
   - Click "Add"
3. Search for "Firewalla" in HACS integrations
4. Click "Install"
5. Restart Home Assistant

### Manual Installation

1. Download the latest release from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/yourusername/homeassistant-firewalla)
2. Extract the contents to your Home Assistant config directory under `custom_components/firewalla`
3. Restart Home Assistant

## Configuration

1. Go to **Settings** -> **Devices & Services**
2. Click the **+ Add Integration** button
3. Search for "Firewalla" and select it
4. Enter your Firewalla MSP domain (e.g., `api.firewalla.com`)
5. Enter your Firewalla API token
6. Click "Submit"

## Obtaining Your API Token

1. Log in to your Firewalla MSP account
2. Go to your account settings
3. Generate or copy your personal access token
4. Make sure the token has read permissions for your devices

## Entities Created

For each Firewalla device, the following entities will be created:

- **Binary Sensor**:
  - `binary_sensor.firewalla_online`: Indicates if the Firewalla is online

- **Sensors**:
  - `sensor.firewalla_device_count`: Number of devices connected to your network
  - `sensor.firewalla_rule_count`: Number of rules configured on your Firewalla
  - `sensor.firewalla_alarm_count`: Number of current alarms
  
- **Switches**:
  - A switch entity is created for each active rule in your Firewalla
  - Switch format: `switch.firewalla_rule_[type]_[target]`
  - Turning a switch ON resumes the rule
  - Turning a switch OFF pauses the rule
  - Each switch includes attributes with details about the rule

## Services

This integration provides services to control Firewalla rules:

- **firewalla.pause_rule**: Pause a specific Firewalla rule
  - Parameter: `rule_id` - The ID of the rule to pause
  
- **firewalla.resume_rule**: Resume a specific Firewalla rule
  - Parameter: `rule_id` - The ID of the rule to resume

Example service call in YAML:
```yaml
service: firewalla.pause_rule
data:
  rule_id: 75489c5b-e8e2-4ab8-b0f1-c2558be1e1d2
```

You can find the rule IDs in the attributes of the switch entities.

## Troubleshooting

### Connection Issues

- Verify that your Firewalla MSP domain is correct
- Verify that your API token is valid and has not expired
- Check if your Firewalla device is online and connected to the internet

### Logs

To get more detailed information for troubleshooting, you can enable debug logging for the component:

```yaml
logger:
  default: info
  logs:
    custom_components.firewalla: debug
```

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please:

1. Check the [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/yourusername/homeassistant-firewalla/issues) to see if your issue has been reported
2. If not, create a new issue with detailed information about the problem

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

claude attempts to add list Devices, but not working

README.md, after:

# Firewalla Integration for Home Assistant

This custom component integrates your Firewalla device(s) with Home Assistant, allowing you to monitor the status and statistics of your Firewalla.

## Features

- Monitor online status of your Firewalla
- Track the number of devices connected to your network
- Monitor rule count
- Track alarm count
- View device information like model, version, mode, etc.
- Control (pause/resume) Firewalla rules through Home Assistant
- Use services to control Firewalla rules programmatically
- Monitor network devices with upload/download statistics
- View device groups and which rules apply to them

## Installation

### HACS (Recommended)

1. Ensure [HACS](https://hacs.xyz/) is installed in your Home Assistant instance
2. Add this repository as a custom repository in HACS:
   - Click on HACS in the sidebar
   - Click on "Integrations"
   - Click the three dots in the top right corner
   - Select "Custom repositories"
   - Add the URL: `https://github.com/joaopedrogoncalves/homeassistant-firewalla`
   - Select "Integration" as the category
   - Click "Add"
3. Search for "Firewalla" in HACS integrations
4. Click "Install"
5. Restart Home Assistant

### Manual Installation

1. Download the latest release from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/joaopedrogoncalves/homeassistant-firewalla)
2. Extract the contents to your Home Assistant config directory under `custom_components/firewalla`
3. Restart Home Assistant

## Configuration

1. Go to **Settings** -> **Devices & Services**
2. Click the **+ Add Integration** button
3. Search for "Firewalla" and select it
4. Enter your Firewalla MSP domain (e.g., `api.firewalla.com`)
5. Enter your Firewalla API token
6. Click "Submit"

## Obtaining Your API Token

1. Log in to your Firewalla MSP account
2. Go to your account settings
3. Generate or copy your personal access token
4. Make sure the token has read permissions for your devices

## Entities Created

For each Firewalla device, the following entities will be created:

- **Binary Sensor**:
  - `binary_sensor.firewalla_online`: Indicates if the Firewalla is online

- **Sensors**:
  - `sensor.firewalla_device_count`: Number of devices connected to your network
  - `sensor.firewalla_rule_count`: Number of rules configured on your Firewalla
  - `sensor.firewalla_alarm_count`: Number of current alarms
  
- **Switches**:
  - A switch entity is created for each active rule in your Firewalla
  - Switch format: `switch.firewalla_rule_[type]_[target]`
  - Turning a switch ON resumes the rule
  - Turning a switch OFF pauses the rule
  - Each switch includes attributes with details about the rule

## Services

This integration provides services to control Firewalla rules:

- **firewalla.pause_rule**: Pause a specific Firewalla rule
  - Parameter: `rule_id` - The ID of the rule to pause
  
- **firewalla.resume_rule**: Resume a specific Firewalla rule
  - Parameter: `rule_id` - The ID of the rule to resume

Example service call in YAML:
```yaml
service: firewalla.pause_rule
data:
  rule_id: 75489c5b-e8e2-4ab8-b0f1-c2558be1e1d2
```

You can find the rule IDs in the attributes of the switch entities.

## Troubleshooting

### Connection Issues

- Verify that your Firewalla MSP domain is correct
- Verify that your API token is valid and has not expired
- Check if your Firewalla device is online and connected to the internet

### Logs

To get more detailed information for troubleshooting, you can enable debug logging for the component:

```yaml
logger:
  default: info
  logs:
    custom_components.firewalla: debug
```

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please:

1. Check the [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/yourusername/homeassistant-firewalla/issues) to see if your issue has been reported
2. If not, create a new issue with detailed information about the problem

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
